---
tags:
  - a9s
  - changelog
  - anynines-deployment
  - release
keywords:
  - a9s
  - changelog
  - anynines-deployment
  - release

slug: changelog-31.1.1-rc.1
title: 31.1.1-rc.1
date: 2022-08-31
---

## 

### Fixed
- a9s Backup Manager: Adjust the ops file backup-on-alicloud.yml to remove the
  configuration for a9s Search service.
- docs: Platform Operator: Add more information on how to configure the wildcard
  certificate correctly. See the
  Wildcard Certificate section.
- docs: Platform Operator: Fixed missing `4444` and `4568` ports to a9s MySQL
  ports list. See more here

### Added
- all services: a9s Dashboard: Add 'Restored From' column on Restores table for the a9s Postgresql
  service instances with PITR enabled. This column shows the point in time used
  to generate the restores.
- a9s Search: Add support for TLS communication. Documentation can be found
  here.
- a9s Service Guard: Add platform operator tasks to cleanup unused security
  groups and truncate approvals. 
- docs: Platform Operator: Add note on installation file informing clients to disable use_dns_addresses.
- docs: Platform Operator: Add section to explain issue with use_dns_addresses property.
  For more information see use_dns_addresses
- all services: a9s BOSH Deployer: Provide a configuration for the deployment updater to force a recreation of all VMs.
  Additionally, instances that are not responsive and would result in an error are now recovered instead.
  See Platform Operator documentation.

### Updated
- all services: Update bpm BOSH release to latest version `1.1.19`.
- a9s Search: Update `repository-azure` and `repository-s3` plugins to latest version `1.3.4`.
- a9s Prometheus: `promgraf2` BOSH release now includes:
  * Prometheus 2.38.0
  * Grafana 8.5.10
  * blackbox_exporter 0.22.0
  * bosh_exporter 3.4.0
  * cadvisor 0.45.0
  * elasticsearch_exporter 1.5.0
  * graphite_exporter 0.12.3
  * influxdb_exporter 0.10.0
  * postgres_exporter 0.11.1
  * statsd_exporter 0.22.7
- a9s Prometheus: `prometheus2` BOSH release now includes:
  * Prometheus 2.37.0
  * blackbox_exporter 0.22.0
  * bosh_exporter 3.4.0
  * cadvisor 0.45.0
  * elasticsearch_exporter 1.5.0
  * graphite_exporter 0.12.3
  * influxdb_exporter 0.10.0
  * postgres_exporter 0.11.0
  * statsd_exporter 0.22.7
- a9s Messaging:
  * a9s Messaging 3.10
    * Erlang 24.3.4.3
    * RabbitMQ 3.10.7
- a9s MySQL: MariaDB 10.4.26
- *INTERNAL RELEASE* a9s Messaging SPI: Consolidate Code of Service Bindings for non-SSL and SSL
  Plans.


