---
tags:
  - a9s
  - changelog
  - anynines-deployment
  - release
keywords:
  - a9s
  - changelog
  - anynines-deployment
  - release

slug: changelog-39.0.0
title: 39.0.0
date: 2023-06-29
---

## 

### Added

- a9s LogMe2: Add default placeholder value to configure the number of OpenSearch nodes in the cluster template. For
  more information see a9s LogMe2 Documentation.
- docs: Application Developer: Describe the requirements for the Common Name and Subject Alternative Name of user
  provided certificates. For more information see Common Name And Subject Alternative Name.
- docs: Platform Operator: Describe the requirements for the Common Name and Subject Alternative Name of a wildcard
  certificate. For more information see Common Name And Subject Alternative Name.
- docs: Platform Operator: Update the Service Plans documentation to include the list of currently available a9s Search
  service plans. For more information see Service Plans.
- docs: Platform Operator: a9s LogMe2: Add new Platform Plan section to the a9s LogMe2 Documentation. For more
  information see a9s LogMe2 Documentation.
- docs: Platform Operator: a9s MariaDB: Create a new page to provide a general overview of a9s MariaDB's cluster setup,
  and MariaDB Galera Cluster's role in it. For more information see a9s MariaDB Cluster Setup Overview.

### Changed

- **breaking change** all services: Use stemcell `ubuntu-jammy` version `1.125` for all internal tests of the a9s Data
  Services Framework components except the following: a9s Consul, a9s Service Guard, a9s Billing, and a9s-pg. Please
  make sure to update your stemcells accordingly, as shown in the example IaaS configuration.
- **breaking change** all services: Use stemcell `ubuntu-bionic` version `1.204` for all internal tests of the a9s Data
  Services. Please make sure to update your stemcells accordingly.
- **breaking change** all services: Change `vm_type` of the a9s Service Dashboard VM from `nano` to `small` to better
  reflect the resource requirements. For more information see a9s Service Dashboard VM size.
- all services: Update routing BOSH release to latest version `0.271.0`.
- all services: Update bpm BOSH release to latest version `1.2.2`.
- all services: a9s Smoke Tests: Add OpenSSL v1.1.1 for compatibility reasons as Ubuntu Jammy comes with OpenSSL v3 by
  default, but our tests still rely on OpenSSL v1; wherefore, we had to add it explicitly to be able to run the a9s
  Smoke Tests on `ubuntu-jammy` stemcell.
- a9s Backup Manager: Increase the possible database connections to 50 to be able to parallelize the backup status
  check.
- a9s Backup Manager: Parallelize the check of the status of running backups. This improves the performance on
  environments that have many backups running in parallel.
- a9s Elasticsearch: Freeze stemcell for a9s Elasticsearch 2, 5, 6, and 7 to `ubuntu-bionic v1.204`. This is necessary
  since these versions are not compatible with `ubuntu-jammy`.
- a9s MariaDB:
  * MariaDB 10.6
    * MariaDB 10.6.14
- a9s MongoDB:
  * a9s MongoDB 5.0
    * MongoDB 5.0.18
- a9s MongoDB: Freeze stemcell for a9s MongoDB 3.2, 3.4, 3.6, 4.0, and 4.0 SSPL to `ubuntu-bionic v1.204`. This is
  necessary since these versions are not compatible with `ubuntu-jammy`.
- a9s MongoDB: SPI: Add OpenSSL v1.1.1 for compatibility reasons as Ubuntu Jammy comes with only OpenSSL v3 by default,
  however, MongoDB 5.0 still depends on OpenSSL v1.
- a9s Messaging:
  * Messaging 3.8
    * Erlang 23.3.4.19
  * Messaging 3.10
    * Erlang 24.3.4.12
    * RabbitMQ 3.10.24
- a9s Messaging: Freeze stemcell for a9s Messaging 3.6 and 3.7 to `ubuntu-bionic v1.204`. This is necessary since these
  versions are not compatible with `ubuntu-jammy`.
- a9s PostgreSQL: Freeze stemcell for a9s PostgreSQL 9.4, 10, and 11 to `ubuntu-bionic v1.204`. This is necessary since
  these versions are not compatible with `ubuntu-jammy`.
- a9s Prometheus: `promgraf2` BOSH release now includes:
  * blackbox_exporter 0.24.0
  * bosh_exporter 3.5.0
  * grafana 8.5.26
  * graphite_exporter 0.14.0
  * influxdb_exporter 0.11.4
  * memcached_exporter 0.13.0
  * postgres_exporter 0.12.1
  * prometheus 2.44.0
  * stackdriver_exporter 0.14.1
  * statsd_exporter 0.24.0
- a9s Prometheus: `prometheus2` BOSH release now includes:
  * blackbox_exporter 0.24.0
  * bosh_exporter 3.5.0
  * grafana 8.5.26
  * graphite_exporter 0.14.0
  * influxdb_exporter 0.11.4
  * memcached_exporter 0.13.0
  * postgres_exporter 0.12.1
  * prometheus 2.44.0
  * stackdriver_exporter 0.14.1
  * statsd_exporter 0.24.0
- consul-dns: Update dnsmasq to latest version `2.89`.
- consul-dns: Add timestamps to log entries of the dnsmasq's control script.
- docs: Application Developer: Update migration documentation for Redis 3. For more information see Redis Migration.
- docs: Platform Operator: a9s Elasticsearch: Change wording and fix typos in the
  `Creating Backups on S3 Compatible Services` section. For more information see a9s Elasticsearch.
- docs: Platform Operator: a9s Messaging: Rename page `RabbitMQ Managment UI Access` to `RabbitMQ Managment UI` and
  revision the whole page. For more information see RabbitMQ Managment UI.
- docs: Platform Operator: a9s Search: Change wording and fix typos in the `Creating Backups on S3 Compatible Services`
  section. For more information see a9s Search.
- docs: Platform Operator: Restructure the documentation regarding configuration of TLS/SSL encrypted communication for
  the a9s Data Services Framework components. For more information see Securing the a9s Framework with TLS.

### Removed

- **breaking change** all services: Remove the Ops files to enable TLS/SSL encrypted communication for individual a9s
  Data Services. Since we decided to enable step by step the TLS/SSL encrypted communication for each a9s Data Services
  Framework component by default and maintaining both ways are not meaningfull and already lead to several confusions we
  decided to remove the possibility to enable TLS/SSL encrypted communication for a specific a9s Data Service. For the
  time being we only support TLS/SSL encrypted communication for the a9s Data Services Framework components where it is
  enabled by default.
- **breaking change** a9s Router: Remove the a9s Router deployment manifest and its Ops files. The a9s Router was only
  used by a9s Kubernetes, which no longer exists, so the a9s Router is no longer needed.
- all services: Remove the obsolete a9s Kubernetes, a9s Harbor, and a9s Router configurations from the
  example IaaS configuration.
- a9s-pg: Remove the obsolete databases for a9s Harbor and a9s Kubernetes. Since we no longer offer these a9s Data
  Services, their dedicated databases are no longer needed.
- docs: Platform Operator: Remove obsolete documentation regarding enabling the TLS/SSL encrypted communication for
  different a9s Data Services Framework components which are not fully supported yet. We decided to enable the
  encryption for each a9s Data Services Framework component step by step as default instead of making it optional per
  a9s Data Service, wherefore, this documentation is no longer needed.
- docs: Platform Operator: Remove outdated troubleshooting documenation regarding TLS/SSL encrypted communication for
  the a9s Data Services Framework components.
- docs: Platform Operator: a9s Messaging: Remove obsolete information from the RabbitMQ TLS/SSL Configuration
  page in favor of TLS/SSL Service Plans.
- docs: Platform Operator: a9s PostgreSQL: Remove obsolete PostgreSQL TLS/SSL Configuration documentation in favor of
  TLS/SSL Service Plans.
- docs: Platform Operator: a9s Redis: Remove obsolete Redis TLS/SSL Configuration documentation in favor of
  TLS/SSL Service Plans.
- docs: Platform Operator: a9s Router: Remove the documentation of the a9s Router.

### Deprecated

- a9s Elasticsearch: Deprecation: Deprecate the following data service version:
  * a9s Elasticsearch: all versions

  Please ensure that you organize the migration of your existing instances to a more up-to-date version of the same
  data service:
  * for a9s Elasticsearch 7: a9s OpenSearch2 is available as GA version.

  This deprecation follows the announcement in the previous release. The deprecation phase is planned to last until
  v49.0.0 (in Q2/2024), in which the deprecated version will become unsupported.
  The creation of new data service instances for this particular version will then be disabled by default in the a9s
  Data Service Bundle and we will not provide regular support for this version. The corresponding documentation will
  also be removed. Therefore, we strongly recommend that you start your migrations to a supported GA version as soon as
  possible and complete them until the end of the deprecation phase.
  For more information see a9s Platform Operator Sunrise Sunset.

  To inquire about extended support for a deprecated version, please get in contact with our sales department at
  sales@anynines.com.
- a9s Redis: Deprecation: Deprecation phase was extended to give customers more time to migrate to a supported data
  service version. Contrary to the announcement of upcoming unsupport in v38.0.0,
  unsupport will not occur in v39.0.0, but in v40.0.0 (expected in Q3/2023) for the following data service versions:
  * a9s Redis v3.2
  * a9s Redis v4
  Please ensure that you organize the migration of your existing instances to a more up-to-date version of the same
  data service:
  * for a9s Redis v3.2: a9s Redis 5, a9s Redis 6, a9s Redis 7 are available as GA versions.
  * for a9s Redis v4: a9s Redis 5, a9s Redis 6, a9s Redis 7 are available as GA versions.
  The extended deprecation phase is planned to last until v40.0.0 (expected in Q3/2023), in which the deprecated
  versions will become unsupported.

- a9s MariaDB: Deprecation: Deprecation phase was extended to give customers more time to migrate to a supported data
  service version. Contrary to the announcement of upcoming unsupport in v38.0.0,
  unsupport will not occur in v39.0.0, but in v44.0.0 (expected in Q4/2023) for the following data service version:
  * a9s MariaDB v10.1
  Please ensure that you organize the migration of your existing instances to a more up-to-date version of the same
  data service:
  * for MariaDB v10.1: a9s MariaDB v10.4 is available as GA version.
  The extended deprecation phase is planned to last until v44.0.0 (expected in Q4/2023), in which the deprecated
  version will become unsupported.

### Fixed

- all services: a9s Template Uploader Errand: Fix issue when using remote Ops files. When using remote Ops files the
  output of the Errand showed a `no implicit conversion of URI::HTTPS into String` and the Errand completed with an
  error (exit code 1).
- a9s-pg: Remove logging of credentials from the PostgreSQL pre-start log.
- a9s Backup Manager: Correct comment in Ops file `ops/backup-on-generic-s3.yml` to make clear that it is intended to
  use with the a9s Backup Manager deployment manifest and not with the a9s-pg deployment manifest.
- a9s Messaging: Handle TLS/SSL plans correctly when registering the RabbitMQ Management UI route. The route was
  registered via HTTP even though it is HTTPS in the case of a TLS/SSL service instance, wherefore, the access did not
  work and you saw a `502 Bad Gateway: Registered endpoint failed to handle the request.`.
- a9s PostgreSQL: Remove logging of credentials from the PostgreSQL pre-start log.
- docs: Application Developer: a9s LogMe2: Correct the custom parameter name for setting the protocol of
  `syslog_drain_url`. The correct custom parameter name of the binding parameter is `syslog-use-udp` and not
  `syslog_use_udp`. For more information see Using a9s LogMe2: Create a Service Key.
- docs: Platform Operator: Updated the sidebar links redirection from the old `a9s Data Services Release Lifecycle` page
  to our `a9s Data Service Sunrise/Sunset for Major Versions`.

### Upcoming

- a9s LogMe: Deprecation: Prepare for the upcoming deprecation phase, triggered during the next release of
  anynines deployment v40.0.0 (expected end of July 2023), of the following data
  service version:
  * a9s LogMe

  Please ensure that you organize the migration of your existing instances to a more up-to-date version of the same
  data service:
  * for a9s LogMe: a9s LogMe2 is available as GA version

  The deprecation phase is planned to last until v43.0.0 (in October 2023), in which
  the deprecated version will become unsupported. The creation of new data service instances for this particular
  version will then be disabled by default in the a9s Data Service Bundle and we will not provide regular support for
  this version. The corresponding documentation will also be removed. Therefore, we strongly recommend that you start
  your migrations to a supported GA version as soon as possible and complete them until the end of the deprecation
  phase. For more information see a9s Platform Operator Sunrise Sunset.

  To inquire about extended support for a deprecated version, please get in contact with our sales department at
  sales@anynines.com.

### Unsupported

- a9s Messaging: End of Support: Terminate support for the following deprecated data service version:
  * Messaging 3.6

  The creation of new data service instances for this deprecated version is now disabled by default in the
  a9s Data Service Bundle and we no longer provide regular support for this version.

  Although we will not intentionally break running instances of this unsupported version, it cannot be guaranteed
  that they still work as expected after an update to this release.


