---
tags:
  - a9s
  - changelog
  - anynines-deployment
  - release
keywords:
  - a9s
  - changelog
  - anynines-deployment
  - release

slug: changelog-40.1.0
title: 40.1.0
date: 2023-08-30
---

## 

### Added

- docs: Application Developer: a9s Search: Add the Elasticsearch 6 migration instructions to the documentation. For more
  information see a9s Search Migration
- docs: Platform Operator: Add a EOL Policy column to the vendored software table in the Sunrise/Sunset documentation.
  This column contains the corresponding link to the vendored software's current EOL/Versioning policies pages. For more
  information see the a9s Data Services Release Cycles 
  section in the `a9s Data Service Sunrise/Sunset for Major Versions` page.
- docs: Platform Operator: a9s Redis: Add disclaimer explaining the limitation on single to cluster plan upgrades for
  a9s Redis 6 and above, and present a path to block/disallow such upgrades.
  For more information see a9s Redis Concerns.

### Changed

- docs: Application Developer: a9s PostgreSQL: Correct contradicting statement regarding the max_connections parameter.
  For more information see Using a9s PostgreSQL.
- docs: Application Developer: a9s Messaging: Update the `Queue Mectrics` section with the current naming examples for
  the queues metrics. For more information see a9s Messaging.
- docs: Application Developer: a9s PostgreSQL: Improve the wording of the 
  `Dump and Restore From Origin Instance to New Instance` section of the a9s PostgreSQL documentation. For more
  information see Using a9s PostgreSQL.
- docs: Application Developer: a9s Redis: Extend the current disclaimer explaining the limitation on single to cluster
  plan upgrades for a9s Redis 6 and above, by presenting an alternate path via our migration feature.
  For more information see Using a9s Redis.
- docs: Application Developer: a9s Redis: Update documentation with information regarding the upgrade from a9s Redis 7
  RC to a9s Redis 7 GA. For more information see: a9s Redis Migration
  and Using a9s Redis.
- docs: Platform Operator: consul-dns: Replace broken link in a9s Consul docs.
- docs: Platform Operator: a9s MariaDB: Add a section about the cluster load balancing behavior.
  For more information see a9s MariaDB Cluster Setup Overview.
- docs: Platform Operator: a9s PostgreSQL: Improve the wording of the `Prepare PostgreSQL` section of the a9s PostgreSQL
  documentation. For more information see a9s PostgreSQL Manual Logical Backup Recovery
- docs: Platform Operator: a9s Redis: Add a9s Redis 7 RC information in the general a9s Redis documentation.
  For more information see: a9s Redis Resources Considerations.

### Fixed

- docs: Application Developer: a9s Messaging: Correct the section with an example which had a swapped username and
  password. For more information see a9s Messaging


