---
tags:
  - a9s
  - changelog
  - anynines-deployment
  - release
keywords:
  - a9s
  - changelog
  - anynines-deployment
  - release

slug: changelog-38.0.0
title: 38.0.0
date: 2023-05-27
---

## 

### Added

- a9s LogMe2: Set file-buffers as the default data buffers. For more information see a9s LogMe2 Documentation.
- a9s PostgreSQL: Increase default timeout for `pg_ctl` finish starting a process to avoid timeout errors during
  startup.

### Changed

- **breaking change** all services: Enable TLS communication between a9s Service Dashboard and a9s Backup Manager. For
  more information see a9s Dashboard Service.
  With this changes the port for the communication between these both components changed from port `3000` (HTTP) to port
  `3001` (HTTPS). Please ensure that your firewalls allow this new communication channel. For more information see
  a9s Platform Required Ports.
- **breaking change** a9s Backup Manager: Enable both TLS (HTTPS) and non-TLS (HTTP) API support for the a9s Backup
  Manager. The non-TLS interface will be disabled when the communication channels from all the components to the
  a9s Backup Manager are set to TLS in the coming releases. For more information see
  a9s Backup Manager TLS Configuration.
- all services: Update routing BOSH release to latest version `0.266.0`.
- all services: Update bpm BOSH release to latest version `1.2.1`.
- all services: Set the Common Names of the certificates defined on the service manifests as their hostnames.
- a9s MongoDB:
  * a9s MongoDB 5.0
    * MongoDB 5.0.17
- a9s PostgreSQL:
  * a9s PostgreSQL 13
    * PostgreSQL 13.11
  * a9s PostgreSQL 11
    * PostgreSQL 11.20
- a9s Redis 6:
  * a9s Redis 6.2.12
- docs: Platform Operator: a9s Backup Manager: Update documentation to explain TLS/SSL configuration options. For more
  information see a9s Platform TLS General Configuration.
- *INTERNAL RELEASE* a9s Backup Manager: Merge backup deletion endpoints together and move it to a new endpoint.

### Deprecated

- a9s MongoDB: Deprecation: Deprecate the following data service versions:
  * a9s MongoDB v3.x
  * a9s MongoDB v4.0

  Please ensure that you organize the migration of your existing instances to a more up-to-date version of the same
  data service:
  * for a9s MongoDB v3.x: a9s MongoDB 5.0 is available as GA version
  * for a9s MongoDB v4.0: a9s MongoDB 5.0 is available as GA version

This deprecation follows the announcement in the previous release. The deprecation phase is planned to last until
v41.0.0 (in Q3/2023), in which the deprecated versions will become unsupported. The creation of new data service
instances for these particular versions will then be disabled by default in the a9s Data Service Bundle and we will
not provide regular support for these versions. Therefore, we strongly recommend that you start your migrations to
a supported GA version as soon as possible and complete them until the end of the deprecation phase.
For more information see a9s Platform Operator Sunrise Sunset.
To inquire about extended support for a deprecated version, please get in contact with our sales department at
sales@anynines.com.

### Fixed

- a9s Backup Manager: Fix the current broken connections rescue logic. During the recent Ruby update, the `pg` gem was
  updated as well, which changed the thrown error. This fix shifts the reconnect logic into our clock functionality in
  order to properly catch the missing broken connections.

### Security

- a9s PostgreSQL: Fix CVEs:
  * CVE-2023-2455
  * CVE-2023-2454

### Upcoming

- a9s Messaging: End of Support: Terminate support, starting from anynines deployment v39.0.0
  (expected end of June 2023), for the following deprecated data service version:
  * a9s Messaging v3.6
- a9s Redis: End of Support: Terminate support, starting from anynines deployment v39.0.0 (expected end of June 2023),
  for the following deprecated data service versions:
  * a9s Redis v3.2
  * a9s Redis v4
- a9s MariaDB: End of Support: Terminate support, starting from anynines deployment v39.0.0 (expected end of June 2023),
  for the following deprecated data service version:
  * a9s MariaDB v.10.1

The creation of new data service instances for these deprecated versions will be disabled by default in the
a9s Data Service Bundle and we will not provide regular support for these versions. Although we will not
intentionally break running instances of these unsupported versions, it cannot be guaranteed that they still
work as expected after an update to v39.0.0.

- a9s Elasticsearch: Deprecation: Prepare for the upcoming deprecation phase, triggered during the next release
  of anynines deployment v39.0.0 (expected end of June 2023), of the following data service versions:
  * a9s ElasticSearch: all versions

  Please ensure that you organize the migration of your existing instances to a more up-to-date version of the
  same data service:
  * for a9s ElasticSearch 7: a9s OpenSearch2 is available as GA version.

The deprecation phase is planned to last until v42.0.0 (in September 2023), in which the deprecated versions will
become unsupported. The creation of new data service instances for these particular versions will then be disabled by
default in the a9s Data Service Bundle and we will not provide regular support for these versions. Therefore, we
strongly recommend that you start your migrations to a supported GA version as soon as possible and complete them until
the end of the deprecation phase. For more information see
a9s Platform Operator Sunrise Sunset.

To inquire about extended support for a deprecated version, please get in contact with our sales department
at sales@anynines.com.


