---
tags:
  - a9s
  - changelog
  - anynines-deployment
  - release
keywords:
  - a9s
  - changelog
  - anynines-deployment
  - release

slug: changelog-43.0.0
title: 43.0.0
date: 2023-12-04
---

## 

### Added

- **breaking change** a9s PostgreSQL: We consider a9s PostgreSQL 15 as `stable` now.
  You have to set the following properties:
  * `postgresql_service.services.a9s-postgresql15.name`
  * `postgresql_service.services.a9s-postgresql15.guid`
  * `postgresql_service.services.a9s-postgresql15.description`
  * `postgresql_service.services.a9s-postgresql15.label`
  * `postgresql_service.services.a9s-postgresql15.version`
  * `postgresql_service.services.a9s-postgresql15.bindable`
  * `postgresql_service.services.a9s-postgresql15.requires`
  * `postgresql_service.services.a9s-postgresql15.tags`
  * `postgresql_service.services.a9s-postgresql15.documentation_url`
  * `postgresql_service.services.a9s-postgresql15.metadata`
  * `postgresql_service.services.a9s-postgresql15.dashboard_client.id`
  * `postgresql_service.services.a9s-postgresql15.plans-to-test`
  * `postgresql_service.services.a9s-postgresql15.planupdates-to-test`
- all services: a9s BOSH Deployer: Introduce the `tls_ciphers` property to configure the allowed TLS ciphers
  for the HTTPS endpoint.
- all services: a9s SPI: Introduce the `tls_ciphers` property to configure the allowed TLS ciphers
  for the HTTPS endpoint.
- a9s-pg: a9s Backup Agent: Add the necessary properties and credentials to the input and output plugin's sections of
  the a9s Backup Agent.
- a9s LogMe2: Introduce the custom parameter `java_garbage_collector` to set the JVM Garbage Collector used by
  OpenSearch. For more information see Tuning a9s LogMe2.
- a9s Messaging: Add example config for a9s Messaging 3.12 to `rabbitmq.yml.example`.
- a9s Messaging: Release a9s Messaging 3.12 as RC. For more information see
  a9s Platform Operator - Sunrise Sunset.
- a9s PostgreSQL: Release a9s PostgreSQL 15 as GA. See
  a9s Platform Operator - Sunrise Sunset.
- a9s Search: Introduce the custom parameters `java_heapspace`, `java_maxmetaspace` and `java_garbage_collector` to set
  JVM memory parameters and the Garbage Collector used by OpenSearch.
  For more information see Tuning a9s Search.
- docs: Application Developer: a9s LogMe2: Add information on how to set the JVM Garbage Collector used by OpenSearch.
  For more information see Tuning a9s LogMe2.
- docs: Application Developer: a9s PostgreSQL: Extract the "Dump and Restore From Origin Instance to New Instance"
  section of the "Using" page of the a9s PostgreSQL Application Developer Documentation into a new "Migration" page and
  extend it to describe how to keep track of the progress via the `pg_database_size` and the available metrics. For more
  information see Migration.
- docs: Application Developer: a9s Search: Add information on how to set JVM memory parameters and the Garbage Collector
  used by OpenSearch. For more information see Tuning a9s Search.
- docs: Platform Operator: Add an admonition explaining the usage of the compound command used with the decrypting
  command of the Recovery documentation pages.
  For more information see a9s MongoDB Manual Logical Backup Recovery,
  a9s-pg Manual Logical Backup Recovery,
  a9s PostgreSQL Manual Logical Backup Recovery,
  a9s PostgreSQL Manual Point-in-Time Recovery.
- docs: Platform Operator: Add a section on how to use the `tls_ciphers` property when configuring TLS encryption for
  the a9s BOSH Deployer and the a9s SPIs. For more information see
  General Configuration.
- docs: Platform Operator: Add a9s Messaging 3.10 templates to the Available Templates documentation.
  For more information see a9s Messaging Available Templates.
- docs: Platform Operator: Add a9s Messaging 3.12 templates to the Available Templates documentation.
  For more information see a9s Messaging Available Templates.
- docs: Platform Operator: Add a9s PostgreSQL 15 templates to the Available Templates documentation.
  For more information see a9s PostgreSQL Available Templates.
- docs: Platform Operator: a9s PostgreSQL: Extend the "Migration" page of the a9s PostgreSQL Platform Operator
  documentation to include a subsection describing how to leverage the `maintenance_work_mem` value to accelerate the
  execution of `copy_from`. For more information see
  Migration.
- docs: Platform Operator: a9s PostgreSQL: Include a disclaimer specifying the recommended operating system when
  executing the suggested command operations. For more information see:
  a9s Manual Logical Recovery
  and
  a9s Manual PITR Recovery.
- docs: Platform Operator: a9s Service Dashboard: Fix duplicate name issue for the property
  `dashboard-app.theme.colors.custom_text_header_highlight`.
  For more information see Customize Color Theme.

### Changed

- **breaking change** a9s Messaging: In order to increase the flexibility, Global Audit Logging can now be configured
  via the custom parameters configuration instead of Ops files. For more information see:
  a9s Messaging Audit log.
- all services: Update BOSH releases:
  * `bpm` BOSH release to version `1.2.11`
  * `routing` BOSH release to version `0.284.0`
- all services: a9s Backup Agent: Update the a9s Backup Agent's configuration to include the necessary properties and
  credentials to perform backups/restores instead of receiving them from the a9s Backup Manager.
- all services: a9s Service Dashboard: Update dependencies in the a9s Service Dashboard.
- a9s LogMe2:
  * Fluentd:
    * openssl 3.2.0
    * fluent-plugin-opensearch 1.1.4
    * fluentd 1.16.2
  * OpenSearch:
    * OpenSearch 2.11
    * OpenSearch Dashboards 2.11
    * OpenSearch Plugin Repository Azure 2.11
    * OpenSearch Plugin Repository S3 2.11
- a9s MariaDB:
  * a9s MariaDB 10.6:
    * MariaDB 10.6.16
- a9s Messaging: Update dependencies in the SPI.
- a9s PostgreSQL:
  * a9s PostgreSQL 13:
    * PostgreSQL 13.13
  * a9s PostgreSQL 11:
    * PostgreSQL 11.22
- a9s Prometheus:
  * `promgraf2`:
    * prometheus 2.47.2
    * statsd_exporter 0.25.0
  * `prometheus`:
    * prometheus 2.47.2
    * statsd_exporter 0.25.0
- a9s Redis:
  * Redis 7:
    * Redis 7.2.3
  * Redis 6:
    * Redis 6.2.14
- a9s Search:
  * a9s Search 2:
    * OpenSearch 2.11
    * OpenSearch Plugin Repository Azure 2.11
    * OpenSearch Plugin Repository S3 2.11
- docs: Platform Operator: a9s Messaging: Adapt the Global Audit Log documentation to reflect the new configuration
  approach. For more information see
  a9s Messaging Audit log,
  Custom Parameter Configuration.
- BOSH stemcell: all services: Update Jammy stemcell to version `1.301` for internal tests of all supported services.

### Removed

- **breaking change** a9s Messaging: Remove `ops/rabbitmq-globaly-enable-audit-log.yml` Ops file.

### Fixed

- all services: Fix typos in the `add-force-deployment-updater.yml` Ops file that prevented it from being interpolated
  correctly. For more information see
  Block Automatic Updates.
- all services: a9s Logstash: Remove outdated a9s Messaging metrics.
- a9s Backup Manager: Fix the a9s Backup Manager's thread usage when checking the state of the backups by adding
  reasonable timeouts.
- a9s Backup Manager: Fix a bug in the deletion process that prevented the deletion of all backup files of backups with
  more than 1000 files. This change affects the following a9s Data Services:
  * a9s Elasticsearch
  * a9s LogMe
  * a9s LogMe2
  * a9s Search
- a9s CF Service Guard: Improve error handling in the `SharedInstancesUpdater` to not fail when there is an issue
  while updating the ASG of one Service Instance.
- a9s CF Service Guard: Introduce dedicated `CF_HOME` folders for the background workers to mitigate the concurrency
  issue when using the same CF CLI within multiple threads.
- a9s LogMe2: Fix the issue that the streaming of application logs to a9s LogMe2 Service Instances stops after a certain
  amount of logs have been streamed by setting the a9s Fluentd `reload_connections` option as false.
- a9s MariaDB: a9s MariaDB 10.6: Fix the issue in which Monit incorrectly sets the `mariadb_ctrl` process status as
  `Execution failed` even though the process continues to run after exceeding the timeout during Monit startup.
- a9s PostgreSQL: Fix log messages reporting a connection to a database that does not exist.
- a9s PostgreSQL: a9s PostgreSQL 15: Fix extension handling during `copy_from` to an a9s PostgreSQL 15 Service Instance.
  Some extensions were wrongly placed in the `shared` schema instead of the intended `public` schema.
- docs: all services: Fix broken links in the following pages
  a9s Redis - Application Developer Path
  TLS/SSL Service Plans.
- docs: Application Developer: Fix several minor typos and misnaming occurrences in the Application Developer path of
  the documentation.
- docs: Application Developer: a9s Messaging: Remove outdated metrics. For more information see Using a9s Messaging.
- docs: Application Developer: a9s PostgreSQL: Fix metric description in Using a9s PostgreSQL.
- docs: Platform Operator: Fix a typo in the 'Introduced' column title at the Sunrise Sunset table, see
  a9s Platform Operator - Sunrise Sunset.
- docs: Platform Operator: Fix table break in the a9s Platform Required Ports page.
- docs: Platform Operator: Fix the sorting approach of the decrypting command on the Recovery documentation pages.
  For more information see a9s MongoDB Manual Logical Backup Recovery,
  a9s-pg Manual Logical Backup Recovery,
  a9s PostgreSQL Manual Logical Backup Recovery,
  a9s PostgreSQL Manual Point-in-Time Recovery.
- docs: Platform Operator: Fix typos in the a9s Redis table of the Available Templates page, where the entries for the
  a9s Redis 7 available templates were mislabeled as Redis 6. For more information see
  Available Templates.
- docs: Platform Operator: a9s CF Service Guard: Fix typo in the a9s CF Service Guard page that provided the incorrect
  location of the `support-shared-instances.yml` Ops file.
  For more information see a9s CF Service Guard.
- docs: Platform Operator: a9s PostgreSQL: Fix the explanation how to retrieve the `backup-id` from the a9s Backup
  Manager database to recover a Service Instance manually. For more information see:
  a9s Manual Logical Recovery
  and
  a9s Manual PITR Recovery.
- docs: Platform Operator: a9s Service Broker: Fix a typo in the provided fetch password command in the a9s Service
  Broker documentation.
  For more information see Cleanup Purged Service Instances.

### Security

- a9s Messaging: Fix CVE:
  * CVE-2023-27530
- a9s PostgreSQL: Fix CVEs:
  * CVE-2023-5868
  * CVE-2023-5869
  * CVE-2023-5870
- a9s Service Dashboard: Fix CVEs:
  * CVE-2023-45133

### Upcoming

- a9s MariaDB: End of Support: Terminate support, starting from anynines deployment v44.0.0
  (expected end of December 2023), for the following deprecated a9s Data Service version:

  * a9s MariaDB 10.1

  The creation of new a9s Data Service instances for this deprecated version will be disabled by default in the a9s Data
  Service Bundle and we will not provide regular support for this version.
  The corresponding documentation will also be removed.

  Although we will not intentionally break running instances of this unsupported version, it cannot be guaranteed
  that they will still work as expected after an update to v44.0.0.


