---
tags:
  - a9s
  - changelog
  - anynines-deployment
  - release
keywords:
  - a9s
  - changelog
  - anynines-deployment
  - release

slug: changelog-36.0.0
title: 36.0.0
date: 2023-03-30
---

## 

### Changed

- all services: Add functionality to migrate from self-signed certificates for TLS/SSL plans to an external CA that is
  used to generate certificates for all service instances using a TLS/SSL plan. For more information please see the
  "Upgrading to v36" Wiki page. **Note** This doesn't apply to a9s LogMe, a9s Harbor, a9s Kubernetes and a9s Prometheus.
- all services: Update Logstash Ruby version to Ruby 3.1.3.
- all services: Update routing BOSH release to latest version `0.260.0`.
- a9s Backup Agent: Update Backup Agent Ruby version to Ruby 3.1.3.
- a9s Backup Monit: Update Ruby version of a9s Backup Monit to Ruby 3.1.3.
- a9s BOSH Deployer: Update Ruby version of a9s BOSH Deployer to Ruby 3.1.3.
- a9s Deployment Updater: Update Ruby version of a9s Deployment Updater to Ruby 3.1.3.
- a9s LogMe 2:
  * OpenSearch 2.6.0
  * OpenSearchDashboards 2.6.0
- a9s Search: OpenSearch 2.6.0
- a9s-pg:
  * a9s PostgreSQL 11
    * PostgreSQL 11.19
- a9s PostgreSQL:
  * a9s PostgreSQL 13
    * PostgreSQL 13.10
  * a9s PostgreSQL 11
    * PostgreSQL 11.19
- a9s Prometheus: `promgraf2` BOSH release now includes:
  * Grafana 8.5.22
  * graphite_exporter 0.13.3
  * haproxy_exporter 0.15.0
  * statsd_exporter 0.23.1
  * influxdb_exporter 0.11.3
  * memcached_exporter 0.11.2
  * postgres_exporter v0.12.0
  * prometheus v2.43.0
- a9s Prometheus: `prometheus2` BOSH release now includes:
  * graphite_exporter 0.13.3
  * haproxy_exporter 0.15.0
  * influxdb_exporter 0.11.3
  * memcached_exporter 0.11.2
  * statsd_exporter 0.23.1
  * postgres_exporter v0.12.0
  * prometheus v2.43.0
- a9s Redis:
  * a9s Redis 6
    * Redis 6.2.11
- a9s Service Broker: Update Ruby version of a9s Service Broker to Ruby 3.1.3.
- a9s SSO Proxy: Update Ruby version of a9s SSO Proxy to Ruby 3.1.3.
- a9s Template Uploader: Update Ruby version of a9s Template Uploader to Ruby 3.1.3.
- docs: Application Developer: Revision of the TLS/SSL Service Plans documentation. For more information see
  TLS/SSL Service Plans.
- docs: Application Developer: Revise the documentation for TLS/SSL Service Plans. For more information see
  a9s TLS/SSL Service Plans.
- docs: Application Developer: a9s Elasticsearch: Inform the users about existing credentials limitation. Different
  service keys are created on service instances have the same set of credentials. For more information see
  a9s ElasticSearch - Obtain Access Credentials
- docs: Application Developer: a9s MariaDB: Update Migration documentation with the migration path for MariaDB 10.1 to
  MariaDB 10.6.
- docs: Application Developer: a9s Messaging: Update the migration page with information regarding the migration path
  from the deprecated version 3.6 to the current GA version 3.10.
- docs: Application Developer: a9s Redis: Inform the users about existing credentials limitation. Different service keys
  are created on service instances have the same set of credentials. For more information see
  a9s Redis - Obtain Access Credentials
- docs: Application Developer: a9s LogMe: Inform the users about existing credentials limitation. Different service keys
  are created on service instances have the same set of credentials. For more information see
  a9s LogMe - Obtain Access Credentials
- docs: Application Developer: a9s PostgreSQL 9.4: Removing documentation references to the unsupported PostgreSQL 9.4.
- docs: Platform Operator: Adjust wording and elaborate various points related to the a9s Data Services release policy.
  For more information see a9s Data Service Sunrise/Sunset for Major Versions.
- docs: Platform Operator: Mark a9s Messaging 3.6 as deprecated in the a9s Data Service Release lifecycle Table. For
  more information see
  a9s Platform Operator Sunrise Sunset.
- docs: Platform Operator: Mark the following a9s Redis versions as deprecated in the a9s Data Service Release Lifecycle
  Table:
  * a9s Redis 3.2
  * a9s Redis 4.0
  For more information see
  a9s Platform Operator - Sunrise Sunset.
- docs: Platform Operator: Revision of the TLS/SSL Service Plans documentation. For more information see
  TLS/SSL Service Plans.
- docs: Platform Operator: a9s PostgreSQL 9.4: Removing documentation references to the unsupported PostgreSQL 9.4.

### Deprecated

- a9s Messaging:
  * Deprecate a9s Messaging 3.6
- a9s Redis:
  * Deprecate a9s Redis 3.2
  * Deprecate a9s Redis 4.0

### Removed

- a9s LogMe2: Remove unused BOSH release `a9s-node-guard` from manifest.
- a9s Search: Remove unused BOSH release `a9s-node-guard` from manifest.

### Fixed

- all services: Fix a typo with the `certificate` property name in the `use-wildcard-certificate.yml`
  Ops-files.
- all services: a9s SSO Proxy: Fix an issue that prevents the metrics to be fetched inside the a9s Dashboard.
- a9s MongoDB: Fix an issue in the MongoDB SPI with the parsing of the MongoDB response when it includes a timestamp.
- a9s MySQL: Remove `use-wildcard-certificate.yml` Ops-file. This data service does not support wildcard certificates.
- docs: Application Developer: Fix a typo with the certificate name. For more information see the
  a9s TLS/SSL Service Plans section.
- docs: Application Developer: a9s Messaging: Update the usage documentation with the correct management dashboard links
  for NON-TLS/SSL and TLS/SSL service instance. For more information see
  Using a9s Messaging.
- docs: Application Developer: a9s Messaging: Add additional notes about the backup behavior regarding queues and their
  data. For more information see
  Backup and Restore Service Instances.
- docs: Platform Operator: Fix a typo with the certificate name. For more information see the
  a9s Deployer Properties, and
  RabbitMQ TLS/SSL Configuration, and
  TLS/SSL Service Plans sections.
- docs: Platform Operator: Adapt the section "Configure TLS" in "Securing the a9s Framework with TLS" to be more precise
  on what must be exported from CredHub when configuring TLS and setting the certificate information from the Gorouter
  in CredHub under `/cf_router_ssl`. It is not necessary to expose the GoRouter private key, only the certificate and
  the CA are required. For more information see
  Export the CredHub Variable.
- docs: Platform Operator: Fix the redirect from the defunct "a9s Data Services Release Lifecycle" page to the
  a9s Platform Operator - Sunrise Sunset.
- docs: Platform Operator: Fix the instructions of the Scenario: A Data Service Breaks section of the a9s Data Service
  Framework Recovery Documentation. For more information see
  a9s Data Service Framework Recovery.
- docs: Platform Operator: Fix typos and amend the TLS/SSL documentation:
  * Remove warnings regading the usage of TLS in production.
  * Add missing service to the list of supported data services.
  For more information see Securing the a9s Framework with TLS.
- docs: Platform Operator: a9s MySQL: Add an explicit disclaimer to inform that the a9s MySQL Data Service does not
  support wildcard certificates. For more information see TLS/SSL Service Plans.
- docs: Platform Operator: a9s Redis: Fix a typo in the BOSH `use_dns_addresses` parameter.
  For more information see Disable use_dns_addresses.

### Upcoming End of Support

In the next anynines-deployment release, v37.0.0, we plan to end support for the following services:

- a9s Kubernetes: The creation of new service instanes for the already deprecated offering will then be disabled by
  default in the a9s Data Service Bundle, and we will not provide regular support for this offering. Although we will
  not intentionally break running instances, it cannot be guaranteed that they still work as expected after an update
  to v37.0.0.
  For more information see a9s Platform Operator Sunrise Sunset.
- a9s Harbor: The creation of new service instanes for the already deprecated offering will then be disabled by default
  in the a9s Data Service Bundle, and we will not provide regular support for this offering. Although we will not
  intentionally break running instances, it cannot be guaranteed that they still work as expected after an update to
  v37.0.0.
  For more information see a9s Platform Operator Sunrise Sunset.


