---
tags:
  - a9s
  - changelog
  - anynines-deployment
  - release
keywords:
  - a9s
  - changelog
  - anynines-deployment
  - release

slug: changelog-35.0.0
title: 35.0.0
date: 2023-03-01
---

## 

### Added

- **breaking change** all services: a9s BOSH Deployer: Enable TLS (HTTPS) encrypted API by default. Check the
  a9s Deployer Properties for
  more information. With this change, the default port has changed from `3000` (plain text) to `3001` (TLS). See the
  a9s Platform Required Ports for more information.
- **breaking change** all services: a9s SPI: Enable TLS (HTTPS) encrypted API by default. Check the
  General Configuration for more information.
  With this change, the default port has changed from `3000` (plain text) to `3001` (TLS). See the
  a9s Platform Required Ports for more information.
- all services: Create bin/prepare.sh script to prepare the environment for the installation of a9s
  Data Services.
- a9s Backup Manager: Add `parallel_backups_limit` for each a9s Service Broker and `parallel_manual_backup_tasks` to
  allow a seperate limit for manual backups. For more information see
  a9s Backup Manager BOSH Properties.
- a9s LogMe: Create new variable called `extensive_tests`to enable/disable full set of backup tests on smoke-tests.
  Basic backup tests enabled by default.
- a9s LogMe2: Create new variable called `extensive_tests`to enable/disable full set of backup tests on smoke-tests.
  Basic backup tests enabled by default.
- a9s LogMe2: Release a9s LogMe 2 as GA, see
  a9s Platform Operator - Sunrise Sunset.
- a9s Messaging 3.10: Add a9s Messaging 3.10 to the service manifest.
- docs: Application Developer: a9s LogMe2: Add a disclaimer specifying the known limitation of a9s LogMe2's TLS syslog
  drain functionality and OpenSearch Dashboards when using a user provided certificate. The Certificate Authority used
  to sign the certificate must be trusted by Cloud Foundry. For further information see
  Using a9s LogMe2.
- docs: Application Developer: a9s LogMe2: Add migration path between a9s LogMe and a9s LogMe2 service instances. This
  is only available for service instances that can reach the log source, as the intent is to synchronize both instances
  as a log sink. For More information see Migrate From a9s LogMe To a9s LogMe2.
- docs: Platform Operator: a9s LogMe2: Add a disclaimer specifying the known limitation of a9s LogMe2's TLS syslog drain
  functionality and OpenSearch Dashboards, which require either an intermediate certificate or a wildcard certificate to
  provided by the Platform Operator. The certificate must be trusted by Cloud Foundry. For further information see
  Using a9s LogMe2.
- docs: Platform Operator: a9s Backup Manager: Extend the a9s Backup Manager's documentation with the new properties
  `parallel_backups_limit`, `parallel_manual_backup_tasks` and `shared_parallel_backup_tasks`. These properties enable
  the limitations for parallel backups tasks, both automatically and manually triggered. For more information see
  a9s Backup Manager BOSH Properties.
- docs: Platform Operator: Add the Certificate Rotation
  section, with information on how to rotate the CA Certificates used by the internal communication of the a9s Framework
  Components.
- docs: Platform Operator: Move General Configuration
  from Configure TLS to its own section.
- docs: Platform Operator: Create new section on the installation documentation to explain the usage of the script to
  prepare the environment. For more information see the
  installation page.

### Updated

- **breaking change** all services: a9s SPI: Revision of certificate handling and standardization between the different
  a9s Data Services. For more information see TLS/SSL Service Plans
- **breaking change** a9s Backup Manager: Rename the property `parallel_backup_tasks` to `shared_parallel_backup_tasks`
  For more information see a9s Backup Manager BOSH Properties.
- **breaking change** all services: Update the ops/rename-service-deployment.yml to
  support the default TLS configuration for the a9s Deployer and a9s SPI.
- all services: Make the deploy non serial by default. Now, all components of the a9s Data Service Framework are updated
  at the same time instead of one after the other.
- all services: Update routing BOSH release to latest version `0.256.0`.
- a9s Elasticsearch: Update Ruby version of ElasticSearch-SPI to Ruby 3.1.3.
- a9s LogMe: Update Ruby version of LogMe-SPI to Ruby 3.1.3.
- a9s LogMe2:
  * OpenSearch 2.5.0
  * opensearch-dashboards 2.5.0
  * repository-azure 2.5.0
  * repository-s3 2.5.0
- a9s LogMe2: Update Ruby version of LogMe2-SPI to Ruby 3.1.3.
- a9s MariaDB: Update Ruby version of MariaDB-SPI to Ruby 3.1.3.
- a9s Messaging:
  * a9s Messaging 3.10
    * RabbitMQ 3.10.17
- a9s Messaging: Update Ruby version of RabbitMQ-SPI to Ruby 3.1.3.
- a9s MongoDB: Update Ruby version of MongoDB-SPI to Ruby 3.1.3.
- a9s MySQL:
  * a9s MySQL 10.4
    * MariaDB 10.4.28
- a9s MySQL: Update Ruby version of MySQL-SPI to Ruby 3.1.3.
- a9s PostgreSQL: Update Ruby version of PostgreSQL-SPI to Ruby 3.1.3.
- a9s Prometheus: `promgraf2` BOSH release now includes:
  * Prometheus 2.42.0
  * Grafana 8.5.20
  * influxdb_exporter 0.11.2
  * stackdriver_exporter 0.13.0
- a9s Prometheus: `prometheus2` BOSH release now includes:
  * Prometheus 2.42.0
  * influxdb_exporter 0.11.2
  * stackdriver_exporter 0.13.0
- a9s Prometheus: Update Ruby version of Prometheus-SPI to Ruby 3.1.3.
- a9s Redis: Update Ruby version of Redis-SPI to Ruby 3.1.3.
- a9s Search:
  * a9s Search 2:
    * OpenSearch 2.5.0
    * repository-azure 2.5.0
    * repository-s3 2.5.0
- a9s Search: Update Ruby version of OpenSearch-SPI to Ruby 3.1.3.
- docs: Application Developer: Revision of the TLS/SSL Service Plans
  documentation.
- docs: Platform Operator: Revision of the TLS/SSL Service Plans
  documentation.
- docs: Platform Operator: Mark a9s Messaging 3.10 as GA in the a9s Data Service Release Lifecycle Table. For more
  information see a9s Platform Operator - Sunrise Sunset.
- docs: Platform Operator: Mark a9s LogMe 2 as GA in the a9s Data Service Release Lifecycle Table. For more information
  see a9s Platform Operator - Sunrise Sunset.
- docs: Platform Operator: Mark a9s MySQL 10.1 as deprecated in the a9s Data Service Release Lifecycle Table. For more
  information see a9s Platform Operator - Sunrise Sunset.

### Deprecated

- a9s MySQL 10.1: Deprecate a9s MySQL 10.1.

### Removed

- **breaking change** a9s Messaging 3.10: Remove the ops file for adding a9s Messaging 3.10 to the service manifest.
  a9s Messaging 3.10 is released as GA and does not have to be activated via Ops file anymore.

### Fixed

- a9s Backup Manager: Improve the backup fragment process, preventing leaving zombie jobs in state `queued` that would
  never be picked for execution. Note that a9s PostgreSQL WAL continuous archiving uses backup fragments for the WAL files.
- a9s LogMe 2: Fix an issue that causes some indices to be left in the 'closed'-state after a restore operation.
- docs: Platform Operator: Fix broken links, remove external documentation, and restore missing diagram within the
  installation page. For more information see a9s Data Services Installation.
- docs: Platform Operator: a9s Backup Services: Fix typo in the General Metrics table of the Backup Monit documentation.
  For further information see Metrics.

### Security

- all services: a9s SPIs: Fix CVEs:
  * CVE-2022-29970
  * CVE-2022-45442
  * CVE-2021-41136
  * CVE-2022-23634
  * CVE-2022-24790
  * CVE-2022-44570
  * CVE-2022-44571
  * CVE-2022-44572
  * GHSA-5pq7-52mg-hr42


