---
tags:
  - a9s
  - changelog
  - anynines-deployment
  - release
keywords:
  - a9s
  - changelog
  - anynines-deployment
  - release

slug: changelog-37.0.0
title: 37.0.0
date: 2023-05-09
---

## 

### Added

- a9s PostgreSQL: a9s PostgreSQL 13: Add switchover capabilities to decrease the downtime during the update of the
  primary node of the cluster. Switchover is only executed in healthy clusters. For more information see:
  a9s Postgresql Switchover.
- a9s Redis: Release a9s Redis 7 as RC. For more information see
  a9s Platform Operator - Sunrise Sunset
- docs: Platform Operator: Create a new page to describe a9s PostgreSQL's Switchover feature.
  For more information see: a9s Postgresql Switchover.

### Changed

- a9s Backup Manager: Update how backups are deleted.
  * The deletion of failed backups is now included in the default deletion process.
  * The `delete-failed-backups` errand was removed, as the deletion of failed backups is now done automatically.
  * Backups that are deleted inside the storage will be deleted after some time from the database.
    The default value after deleted backup are removed from the database is 180 days.
    For more information see table in the
    Configurable Properties
    section.
- a9s Backup Manager: Update Ruby version of a9s Backup Manager to Ruby 3.1.3.
- a9s MongoDB: Add a new default role to grant collection modification privileges to the users of the default database.
  For more information see table in the
  Default Roles section.
- a9s Smoke Tests: Update Ruby version of a9s Service Smoke Tests to Ruby 3.1.3.
- docs: Application Developer: a9s MongoDB: Create a new section in the a9s MongoDB documentation describing the default
  roles granted to an user upon creation. For more information see the
  Default Roles section.
- docs: Application Developer: a9s Redis: Updated migration document making it more general, as its migration paths work
  for multiple Redis versions. For more information see Migration.
- docs: Platform Operator: Updated the column `EOL in Vendor`in our a9s Data Service Sunrise/Sunset for Major Versions
  page to reflect the latest changes to the EOL policies of multiple vendors. For more information see
  a9s Data Service Release Lifecycle Table
  section.
- docs: Platform Operator: a9s Service Dashboard: Add instance requirements for the a9s Service Dashboard.
  For more information see a9s Service Dashboard.

### Unsupported

- a9s Harbor: End of Support: Terminate support for the following deprecated data service versions:
  * a9s Harbor (all versions)
  The creation of new data service instances for these deprecated versions is now disabled by default in the a9s Data
  Service Bundle and we no longer provide regular support for these versions.
- a9s Kubernetes: End of Support: Terminate support for the following deprecated data service versions:
  * a9s Kubernetes (all versions)
  The creation of new data service instances for these deprecated versions is now disabled by default in the a9s Data
  Service Bundle and we no longer provide regular support for these versions.

Although we did not intentionally break running instances of these unsupported versions, it cannot be guaranteed that
they still work as expected after an update to this release.

### Fixed

- a9s MariaDB:
  * a9s MariaDB 10.6 and 10.4: Fix an issue preventing the bootstrapping node from rejoining the cluster in case of a
    failure.
- docs: Platform Operator: a9s Service Dashboard: Fix duplicate documentation ID between the "Customize Color Theme" and
  the "Allow Automatic Updates" documents, as well as the disfunctional link to the "Customize Color Theme" document in
  the CHANGELOG.

### Upcoming

- a9s MongoDB: Deprecation: Prepare for the upcoming deprecation phase, triggered during the next release of anynines
  deployment (v38.0.0, expected by end of May), of the following data service versions:
  * a9s MongoDB v3.x
  * a9s MongoDB v4.0
  Please ensure that you organize the migration of your existing instances to more up-to-date version of the same
  data service:
  * for a9s MongoDB v3.x: a9s MongoDB 5.0 is available as GA version
  * for a9s MongoDB v4.0: a9s MongoDB 5.0 is available as GA version

The deprecation phase is planned to last until v41.0.0 (in Q3/2023), in which the deprecated versions will become
unsupported. The creation of new data service instances for these particular versions will then be disabled by
default in the a9s Data Service Bundle and we will not provide regular support for these versions. Therefore, we
strongly recommend that you start your migrations to a supported GA version as soon as possible and complete them
until the end of the deprecation phase.
For more information see a9s Platform Operator Sunrise Sunset.
To inquire about extended support for a deprecated version, please get in contact with our sales department at
sales@anynines.com.



