---
tags:
  - a9s
  - changelog
  - anynines-deployment
  - release
keywords:
  - a9s
  - changelog
  - anynines-deployment
  - release

slug: changelog-36.1.0
title: 36.1.0
date: 2023-04-23
---

## 

### Added

- all services: a9s Service Dashboard: Make the style of the a9s Service Dashboard customizable. For more information
  see a9s Service Dashboard Color Theme.
- a9s Billing:
  * cf_billing
    * Add property `cf_billing.efforts.oauth` to enable OAuth2 authentification for efforts endpoints
    * Add property `cf_billing.time_zone` to be able to use different time zones than UTC
- a9s Search: Introduce `discovered_master` and `discovered_cluster_manager` metrics in the a9s Logstash OpenSearch
  plugin.
- docs: Application Developer: Update a9s Search documentation with the `discovered_master` and
  `discovered_cluster_manager` metrics. For more information see
  a9s Search Metrics.
- *INTERNAL RELEASE* all services: a9s Service Broker: Add a search endpoint to find a service instance by its
  deployment name.

### Changed

- all services: Update routing BOSH release to latest version `0.262.0`.
- all services: Update bpm BOSH release to latest version `1.2.0`.
- a9s MongoDB:
  * a9s MongoDB 50
    * MongoDB 5.0.16
- docs: Platform Operator: a9s PostgreSQL: Add a table describing the accepted `backup-manager-service-instance-id`, now
  referred to as `backup-file-id`, values to retrieve the backup encryption secret when executed a manual logical backup
  recovery. For more information see
  a9s PostgreSQL Manual Logical Backup Recovery.
- docs: Platform Operator: a9s Service Dashboard: Add customize service dashboard page. For more information see
  a9s Service Dashboard Color Theme.
- *INTERNAL RELEASE* all services: a9s Backup Agent: Make request timeout and maximum wait time to finish an operation
  for the backup and restore plugins of a9s Search, a9s Elasticsearch, a9s LogMe, and a9s LogMe 2 configurable.


