---
tags:
  - a9s
  - changelog
  - anynines-deployment
  - release
keywords:
  - a9s
  - changelog
  - anynines-deployment
  - release

slug: changelog-44.0.0
title: 44.0.0
date: 2023-12-21
---

## 

### Added

- a9s PostgreSQL: Add `vector` PostgreSQL extension.
- docs: Application Developer: a9s LogMe2: Add a section describing the protocols accepted by a9s LogMe2, including the
  standards these protocols follow. For more information see:
  Supported Protocols and Limitations.
- docs: Platform Operator: a9s PostgreSQL: Add a page that explains the known split brain issue of a9s PostgreSQL and
  how to fix it. For more information see:
  Split Brain.

### Changed

- all services: a9s Bee: Update Go version in a9s Bee.
- all services: a9s Service Dashboard: Update NodeJS to v20.10.0 in the a9s Service Dashboard.
- docs: Application Developer: a9s PostgreSQL: Add `vector` PostgreSQL extension. For more information see
  Using a9s PostgreSQL - Available Extensions
  Migration - Caveats.
- docs: Application Developer: a9s Redis: Update Redis migration scripts for the DUMP & RESTORE method to account
  for binary data. For more information see a9s Redis Migration.
- docs: Platform Operator: Add a warning regarding the usage of TLSv1.3 with a9s Data Services. For more information
  see
  SSL-Plans](docs/application-developer/common/ssl-plans/index.md), [TLS-Encryption
  and Framework-TLS.

### Unsupported

- a9s MariaDB: End of Support: Terminate support for the following deprecated a9s Data Service version:

  * a9s MariaDB 10.1

  The creation of new a9s Data Service instances for this deprecated version is now disabled by default in the a9s Data
  Service Bundle and we no longer provide regular support for this version.
  The corresponding documentation has been removed.

  Although we will not intentionally break running instances of this unsupported version, it cannot be guaranteed
  that they still work as expected after an update to this release.

### Fixed

- all services: a9s SPI: Ensure that credentials are redacted when errors are logged.
- a9s Backup Manager: Fix failing backups for a9s PostgreSQL service instances with continuous archiving enabled by
  adding a missing constant.
- a9s CF Service Guard: Fix a bug in the creation of ASGs for long-running service instances. For these, the required
  information is provided in a different structure due to recent changes in the OSB API.
- a9s MongoDB: Fix a smoke-test issue with a9s MongoDB by extending
 enable-service-instances-aws-instance-profile.yml
  so that it does not upload the older versions of a9s MongoDB.
- docs: Platform Operator: Extend the a9s Data Service Sunrise/Sunset for Major Versions document to better reflect the
  a9s Data Services' release cadence by adding a diagram and rewording some keywords.
  For more information see a9s Data Service Sunrise/Sunset for Major Versions.

### Security

- a9s Bee: Fix CVEs:
  * CVE-2020-28483
  * CVE-2023-39325
- a9s Service Dashboard: Fix CVEs:
  * CVE-2023-30590
  * CVE-2023-32002
  * CVE-2023-32006
  * CVE-2023-32558
  * CVE-2023-32559
  * CVE-2023-44487

### Upcoming

- a9s LogMe: End of Support: Terminate support, starting from anynines deployment v47.0.0
  (expected end of March 2024), for the following deprecated a9s Data Service version:

  * a9s LogMe

  The creation of new a9s Data Service instances for this deprecated version will be disabled by default in the a9s Data
  Service Bundle and we will not provide regular support for this version.
  The corresponding documentation will also be removed.

  Although we will not intentionally break running instances of this unsupported version, it cannot be guaranteed
  that they still work as expected after an update to v47.0.0.


