---
tags:
  - a9s
  - changelog
  - anynines-deployment
  - release
keywords:
  - a9s
  - changelog
  - anynines-deployment
  - release

slug: changelog-42.0.0
title: 42.0.0
date: 2023-10-21
---

## 

### Added

- all services: a9s Deployment Updater Errand: Extend the a9s Deployment Updater Errand to run Service Instance updates
  in parallel. For more information see a9s Deployment Updater.
- all services: Add Ops file `add-force-deployment-updater.yml` to each a9s Data Service. For more
  information see the Installation section of
  Block Automatic Updates.
  For more information see a9s Deployment Updater.
- docs: all services: Add admonition informing both the Application Developer and the Platform Operator that it is
  necessary to rebind and restage all applications using the affected a9s Service Instance.
- docs: Application Developer: a9s DS API Gateway: Extract all information related to the a9s Public API from the
  existing a9s Service Dashboard page into a new section with pages describing its usage and considerations. For
  more information see a9s Public API.
- docs: Application Developer: a9s Service Dashboard: Add dedicated section explaining the a9s Parachute information
  displayed by the a9s Service Dashboard. For more information see the "a9s Parachute" section of
  a9s Service Dashboard.
- docs: Application Developer: a9s Service Dashboard: Extract all information related to the a9s Service Dashboard from
  the existing a9s Service Dashboard page into a new section with pages describing its usage and considerations. For
  more information see a9s Service Dashboard.
- docs: Platform Operator: a9s Deployment Updater Errand: Add a dedicated section for the a9s Deployment Updater Errand.
  For more information see a9s Deployment Updater.

### Changed

- **breaking change** all services: a9s Deployment Updater Errand: Refactor the properties of the `deployment-updater`
  Instance Group. For more information see a9s Deployment Updater - Properties.
- all services: a9s Backup Agent: Update dependencies in the a9s Backup Agent.
- all services: a9s BOSH Deployer: Update dependencies in the a9s BOSH Deployer.
- all services: a9s CF Service Guard: Update dependencies in the a9s CF Service Guard.
- all services: a9s Service Broker: Update dependencies in the a9s Service Broker.
- all services: a9s SSO Proxy: Update dependencies in the a9s Dashboard.
- all services: Update BOSH releases:
  * `routing` BOSH release to version `0.282.0`
  * `bpm` BOSH release to version `1.2.9`
- a9s Backup Manager: a9s Backup Monit: Update dependencies in the a9s Backup Monit.
- a9s PostgreSQL:
  * a9s PostgreSQL 13:
    * PostgreSQL 13.12
- a9s Prometheus:
  * `promgraf2`:
    * postgres_exporter 0.14.0
  * `prometheus`:
    * postgres_exporter 0.14.0
- a9s Prometheus: SPI: Update dependencies in the a9s Prometheus SPI.
- docs: Platform Operator: Update the chapter Update All Service Instances
  in the Administration page to link to the new
  a9s Deployment Updater page.
- docs: Platform Operator: a9s Service Broker: Update information about the new Ops File
  `add-force-deployment-updater.yml` to Block Automatic Updates documentation.

### Unsupported

- a9s MongoDB: End of Support: Terminate support for the following deprecated data service versions:
  * a9s MongoDB 3.x
  * a9s MongoDB 4.0

  The creation of new data service instances for these deprecated versions is now disabled by default in the a9s Data
  Service Bundle and we no longer provide regular support for these versions.
  The corresponding documentation has been removed.

  Although we will not intentionally break running instances of these unsupported versions, it cannot be guaranteed
  that they still work as expected after an update to this release.

### Removed

- **breaking change** all services: Remove the Instance Group `force_deployment_updater` from all a9s Data Service
  deployment manifests. This errand is only needed when the feature `Block Automatic Updates` is enabled. For more
  information see Block Automatic Updates.

### Fixed

- a9s Backup Manager: Fix the `InitializeBackupDeletionJob` job by refactoring it into separate methods to deal with a
  specific type of backup each. This fixes the cases where, at times, backups without a backup name would cause the job
  to fail and restart.
- docs: all services: Fix several minor typos and misnaming ocurrences.
- docs: all services: Fix the internal documentation links to reflect the restructuring of the a9s Service Dashboard
  documentation and the a9s Installation Guide.

### Security

- all services: a9s Backup Agent: Fix CVEs:
  * CVE-2023-27530
  * CVE-2022-45442
  * CVE-2022-29970
- all services: a9s BOSH Deployer: Fix CVEs:
  * CVE-2022-21831
  * CVE-2022-23633
  * CVE-2022-32224
  * CVE-2022-44566
  * CVE-2023-22794
  * CVE-2022-23476
  * CVE-2022-23514
  * CVE-2022-23517
  * CVE-2023-27530
  * CVE-2022-44570
- all services: a9s CF Service Guard: Fix CVEs:
  * CVE-2023-40175
- all services: a9s Service Broker: Fix CVEs:
  * CVE-2023-27530
  * CVE-2023-40175
- all services: a9s SSO Proxy: Fix CVEs:
  * CVE-2023-27530
  * CVE-2023-40175
- a9s Backup Manager: a9s Backup Monit: Fix CVEs:
  * CVE-2022-45442
- a9s Prometheus: SPI: Fix CVEs:
  * CVE-2023-27530
  * CVE-2022-45442

