---
tags:
  - a9s
  - changelog
  - anynines-deployment
  - release
keywords:
  - a9s
  - changelog
  - anynines-deployment
  - release

slug: changelog-45.0.0
title: 45.0.0
date: 2024-01-30
---

## 

### Added

- **breaking change** a9s Messaging: We consider a9s Messaging 3.12 as `stable` now.
  You have to set the following properties:
  * `rabbitmq_service.services.a9s-messaging312.name`
  * `rabbitmq_service.services.a9s-messaging312.guid`
  * `rabbitmq_service.services.a9s-messaging312.description`
  * `rabbitmq_service.services.a9s-messaging312.label`
  * `rabbitmq_service.services.a9s-messaging312.version`
  * `rabbitmq_service.services.a9s-messaging312.bindable`
  * `rabbitmq_service.services.a9s-messaging312.requires`
  * `rabbitmq_service.services.a9s-messaging312.tags`
  * `rabbitmq_service.services.a9s-messaging312.documentation_url`
  * `rabbitmq_service.services.a9s-messaging312.metadata`
  * `rabbitmq_service.services.a9s-messaging312.dashboard_client.id`
  * `rabbitmq_service.services.a9s-messaging312.plans`
  * `rabbitmq_service.services.a9s-messaging312.plans-to-test-for-release-update`
  * `rabbitmq_service.services.a9s-messaging312.plans-to-test`
  * `rabbitmq_service.services.a9s-messaging312.planupdates-to-test`
- a9s CF Service Guard: Introduce an Ops file to add the a9s Prometheus Data Service to the a9s CF Service Guard. For
   more information see here.
- a9s Messaging: Release a9s Messaging 3.12 as GA. For more information see
  a9s Platform Operator - Sunrise Sunset.
- a9s Prometheus: Make the `scrape_config` parameter configurable via custom parameters. For more information see
  a9s Prometheus Custom Parameters and
  Default Custom Parameter Configuration.
- docs: Application Developer: a9s Messaging: Add a9s Messaging 3.12 to the Migration documentation. For more information
  see a9s Messaging Migration.
- docs: Platform Operator: Add the ports required by a9s Messaging 3.12 to the Required Ports table.
  For more information see a9s Platform Required Ports.
- docs: Platform Operator: all services: Add a chapter that explains how to test the custom scrape config. For more
  information see Custom Scrape Config Test.

### Changed

- all services: a9s DS API Gateway: The a9s DS API Gateway VM will now switch to the state `failing` if the a9s Beehive
  is unresponsive for more than one minute.
- all services: a9s Dashboard: Update `route-registrar` configuration to maintain backward-compatible non-TLS
  communication with CloudFoundry NATS.
- all services: a9s Smoke Tests: Extend the smoke-tests to include tests for a9s Prometheus.
- all services: a9s Smoke Tests: Update the Go version in the application used in the smoke-tests to v1.17.
- all services: a9s Template Uploader Errand: Extend the a9s Prometheus templates to allow adding the `scrape_config` as
  a custom parameter.
- all services: Update BOSH releases:
  * `bpm` BOSH release to version `1.2.13`
  * `routing` BOSH release to version `0.287.0`
- a9s Backup Manager: Refactor worker to delete backups to run within its own process.
- a9s Billing:
  * Golang v1.21
- a9s DS API Gateway:
  * Golang v1.21
- a9s LogMe2:
  * a9s Search:
    * OpenSearch v2.11.1
    * OpenSearch Dashboards v2.11.1
    * OpenSearch Plugin Repository Azure v2.11.1
    * OpenSearch Plugin Repository S3 v2.11.1
- a9s MariaDB:
  * a9s MariaDB 10.4:
    * MariaDB 10.4.32
    * Golang 1.21
  * a9s MariaDB 10.6:
    * Golang 1.21
- a9s Messaging:
  * a9s Messaging 3.12:
    * RabbitMQ v3.12.12
    * erlang v25.3.2.8
  * a9s Messaging 3.10:
    * erlang/otp v24.3.4.15
- a9s MongoDB:
  * a9s MongoDB 5.0:
    * MongoDB v5.0.24 SSPL
- a9s PostgreSQL:
  * a9s PostgreSQL 13:
    * sqlite v3.45.0
  * a9s PostgreSQL 15:
    * sqlite v3.45.0
- a9s Prometheus:
  * `prometheus2`:
    * bosh_exporter v3.6.1
    * cadvisor v0.48.1
    * collectd_exporter v0.6.0
    * consul_exporter to v0.11.0
    * graphite_exporter v0.15.0
    * Golang v1.21
    * influxdb_exporter v0.11.5
    * memcached_exporter v0.14.1
    * postgres_exporter v0.15.0
    * prometheus v2.49.1
    * statsd_exporter v0.26.0
  * `promgraf2`:
    * bosh_exporter v3.6.1
    * cadvisor v0.48.1
    * collectd_exporter v0.6.0
    * consul_exporter v0.11.0
    * graphite_exporter v0.15.0
    * Golang v1.21
    * influxdb_exporter v0.11.5
    * memcached_exporter v0.14.1
    * postgres_exporter v0.15.0
    * prometheus v2.49.1
    * statsd_exporter v0.26.0
- a9s Prometheus: Adjust the example configuration to exclude plan update tests as
  these are currently not supported by the a9s Prometheus Data Service.
- a9s Redis:
  * a9s Redis 7:
    * Redis 7.2.4
- a9s Search:
  * OpenSearch v2.11.1
  * OpenSearch Dashboards v2.11.1
  * OpenSearch Plugin Repository Azure v2.11.1
  * OpenSearch Plugin Repository S3 v2.11.1
- a9s Template Uploader Errand: Update the `route-registrar` configuration in the deployer templates of a9s Prometheus
  and a9s LogMe.
- docs: Application Developer: a9s LogMe2: Remove duplicated information on the page `Using a9s LogMe2` and add a
  missing step in the chapter `See Your Service Logs`. For more information see
  Using a9s LogMe2.
- docs: Application Developer: a9s PostgreSQL: Fix typos on the index page of a9s PostgreSQL. For more information see
  a9s PostgreSQL.
- docs: Application Developer: a9s PostgreSQL: Fix a heading on the page `Using a9s PostgreSQL` by using the correct
  level. For more information see
  Upgrade the Service Instance to another Service Plan.
- docs: Application Developer: a9s Prometheus: Restructure the Application Developer documentation regarding the a9s
  Prometheus Data Service to match the current documentation layout. For more information see
  Application Developer documentation.
- docs: Application Developer: a9s Prometheus: Adapt the URLs in the Service Key example. For more information see:
  Using a9s Prometheus.
- docs: Platform Operator: all services: Restructure the page explaining the a9s Smoke Tests to match the current
  documentation layout. For more information see Smoke Tests.
- docs: Platform Operator: a9s CF Service Guard: Extend the existing note about `cloud_foundry.asg_prefix` with
  additional information. For more information see
  Cloud Foundry Configuration.
- docs: Platform Operator: a9s Prometheus: Restructure the Platform Operator documentation regarding the a9s Prometheus
  Data Service to match the current documentation layout. For more information see
  Platform Operator documentation.

### Removed

- docs: Application Developer: a9s Prometheus: Remove the page `Migrate From Grafana 5.4 to Grafana 8.3` as there is
  currently no migration path available in the a9s Prometheus Data Service. For more information see
  here.

### Fixed

- **breaking change** a9s Prometheus: Fix the properties `prometheus_urls`, `grafana_urls` and `alertmanager_urls`
  provided in the service binding to match the configured `web.external-url` in a9s Prometheus.
- a9s Backup Manager: Fix the pagination for the instances endpoint used by a9s Backup Monit.
- a9s LogMe2: Fix the `service_broker.api_endpoint` property in the
  add_force_deployment_updater Ops file.
- a9s MariaDB: Fix the `mysql_upgrade_info` identifier to prevent misbehavior during the upgrade checking process.
- a9s Messaging: Fix the template-names in the example Service-Plan config for a9s Messaging 3.12.
  For more information see rabbitmq.yml.example
- a9s PostgreSQL: Fix permissions and ownership of log files for a9s PostgreSQL 15. Logs created after the `post-start`
  script execution had the wrong permission and prevented the PostgreSQL process from starting.
- docs: Application Developer: a9s MariaDB: Fix `Sys Schema objects` metrics table in the "Using a9s MariaDB" page. For
  more information see: Using a9s MariaDB.
- docs: Application Developer: a9s PostgreSQL: Remove redundant entries in the `metric groups` table. For more
  information see: Metric Groups.

### Security

- a9s Billing: Fix CVEs:
  * CVE-2023-45287
  * CVE-2023-39323
- a9s DS API Gateway: Fix CVEs:
  * CVE-2023-45287
  * CVE-2023-39323
- a9s MariaDB: Fix CVEs:
  * CVE-2023-45287
  * CVE-2023-39323
- a9s PostgreSQL: Fix CVEs:
  * CVE-2023-7104
- a9s Prometheus: Fix CVEs:
  * CVE-2023-45287
  * CVE-2023-39323

### Upcoming

- a9s PostgreSQL: Deprecation: Prepare for the upcoming deprecation phase, triggered during the next release of
  anynines deployment v46.0.0 (expected end of February 2024), of the following data
  service version:

  * a9s PostgreSQL 10

  Please ensure that you organize the migration of your existing instances to a more up-to-date version of the same
  data service:

  * for a9s PostgreSQL: a9s PostgreSQL 11, 13 and 15 are available as GA version

  The deprecation phase is planned to last until v49.0.0 (in May 2024), in which the deprecated version will become
  unsupported. The creation of new data service instances for this particular version will then be disabled by default
  in the a9s Data Service Bundle and we will not provide regular support for this version. The corresponding
  documentation will also be removed. Therefore, we strongly recommend that you start your migrations to a supported GA
  version as soon as possible and complete them until the end of the deprecation phase.
  For more information see a9s Platform Operator Sunrise Sunset.

  To inquire about extended support for a deprecated version, please get in contact with our sales department at
  sales@anynines.com.


