---
tags:
  - a9s
  - changelog
  - anynines-deployment
  - release
keywords:
  - a9s
  - changelog
  - anynines-deployment
  - release

slug: changelog-46.1.0
title: 46.1.0
date: 2024-03-12
---

## 

### Added

- all services: a9s Logstash: Add support for MongoDB 7.0.
- all services: a9s Template Uploader Errand: Add templates for a9s MongoDB 7.0.
- all services: a9s Smoke Tests: Add support for a9s MongoDB 7.0.
- docs: Platform Operator: a9s MongoDB: Add a9s MongoDB 7.0 as an `a9s Release Candidate`. For more information see
  a9s Platform Operator Sunrise Sunset
  and a9s Platform Required Ports.
- Add-on: a9s MongoDB SSPL: Introduce a9s MongoDB 7.0 as an `a9s Release Candidate`.
- Add-on: a9s MongoDB SSPL: Add example config for a9s MongoDB 5.0 and 7.0 to `mongodb.yml.example`.

### Changed

- **breaking change** a9s MariaDB: Update the default value of the `modifiable` attribute of the `binlog_expire_days`
  custom parameter from `true` to `false`. This change requires the Platform Operator to explicitly set the `modifiable`
  attribute to `true` to continue allowing the Application Developers to set the value of `binlog_expire_days`.
- docs: Application Developer: a9s MongoDB: Extend the manual dump page with details on the use of a9s MongoDB 7.0.
  For more information, see Creating Local Copy of the Data.
- docs: Application Developer: a9s MongoDB: Update the metrics section of the "Using a9s MongoDB" page to include
  changes for a9s MongoDB 7.0.
  For more information, see MongoDB Metrics.
- docs: Platform Operator: a9s MariaDB: Update the "a9s MariaDB SPI Configuration" page to reflect the changes to the
  default value of the `modifiable` attribute in the `binlog_expire_days` custom parameter. For more information see
  a9s MariaDB SPI Configuration.
- docs: Platform Operator: a9s MongoDB: Update addon `README.md` file for a9s MongoDB 7.0 and minor improvements.
  For more information, see a9s MongoDB SSPL Addon README.md file.
- docs: Platform Operator: a9s MongoDB: Update the available templates section for a9s MongoDB 7.0.
  For more information, see Available Templates.
- docs: Platform Operator: a9s MongoDB: Update the manual backup recovery page for a9s MongoDB 7.0.
  For more information, see a9s MongoDB Manual Logical Backup Recovery.
- docs: Platform Operator: a9s MongoDB: Update the migration page for a9s MongoDB 7.0.
  For more information, see Migrating Data Between Instances.

### Removed

- **REMOVAL OF OFFERING** a9s MongoDB: Remove the offering of `a9s MongoDB 3.2` from the anynines Data Services, as
  this version is now deprecated on account of it reaching its E.O.L on September 2018. We removed the files, version
  specific examples, references and documentation that relate to the deprecated version.
- **REMOVAL OF OFFERING** a9s MongoDB: Remove the offering of `a9s MongoDB 3.4` from the anynines Data Services, as
  this version is now deprecated on account of it reaching its E.O.L on January 2020. We removed the files, version
  specific examples, references and documentation that relate to the deprecated version.
- **REMOVAL OF OFFERING** a9s MongoDB: Remove the offering of `a9s MongoDB 3.6` from the anynines Data Services, as
  this version is now deprecated on account of it reaching its E.O.L on April 2021. We removed the files, version
  specific examples, references and documentation that relate to the deprecated version.
- **REMOVAL OF OFFERING** a9s MongoDB: Remove the offering of `a9s MongoDB 4.0` from the anynines Data Services, as
  this version is now deprecated on account of it reaching its E.O.L on April 2022. We removed the files, version
  specific examples, references and documentation that relate to the deprecated version.

### Fixed

- a9s Prometheus: Add the missing "sha256" prefix for the Prometheus2 release checksum in the
  Enable Prometheus Ops-File.


